=head1 NAME

Mac::AppleEvents - Macintosh Toolbox Interface to the Apple Event Manager

=head1 SYNOPSIS

	use Mac::AppleEvents;


=head1 DESCRIPTION

Access to Inside Macintosh is essential for proper use of these functions.
Explanations of terms, processes and procedures are provided there.
Any attempt to use these functions without guidance can cause severe errors in 
your machine, including corruption of data. B<You have been warned.>

=head2 Constants: AppleEvent Descriptor Types

=over 4

=item  typeBoolean 

A boolean.

=item  typeTrue 

A boolean True value.

=item  typeFalse 

A boolean False value.

=item  typeChar 

A string.

=item  typeShortInteger 

A 16 bit integer.

=item  typeInteger 

=item  typeLongInteger 

A 32 bit integer.

=item  typeMagnitude 

An unsigned 32 bit integer.

=item  typeShortFloat 

A single precision floating point number.

=item  typeFloat 

=item  typeLongFloat 

A double precision floating point number.

=item  typeExtended 

An extended double precision floating point number.

=item  typeComp 

A 64 bit number.

=item  typeAEList 

An AppleEvent list.

=item  typeAERecord 

An AppleEvent record.

=item  typeAppleEvent 

An AppleEvent.

=item  typeFSS 

A file specification record.

=item  typeAlias 

A file alias record.

=item  typeEnumerated 

An enumeration literal (4 byte character).

=item  typeType 

An AppleEvent type (4 byte character).

=item  typeAppParameters 

An application launch parameter record.

=item  typeProperty 

A property keyword (4 byte character).

=item  typeKeyword 

A keyword (4 byte character).

=item  typeSectionH 

An Edition Manager section handle.

=item  typeWildCard 

An arbitrary value.

=item  typeApplSignature 

An application signature (4 byte character).

=item  typeQDRectangle 

A QuickDraw rectangle.

=item  typeFixed 

A fixed point value.

=item  typeSessionID 

A PPC Toolbox session ID.

=item  typeTargetID 

A target ID record.

=item  typeProcessSerialNumber 

A process serial number.

=item  typeNull 

No data.

=back

=head2 Constants: Parameter and Attribute Keywords

=over 4

=item  keyDirectObject 

The direct object parameter.

=item  keyErrorNumber 

Error number.

=item  keyErrorString 

Error string.

=item  keyProcessSerialNumber 

Process serial number.

=item  keyTransactionIDAttr 

Transaction ID.

=item  keyReturnIDAttr 

Return ID.

=item  keyEventClassAttr 

Event class.

=item  keyEventIDAttr 

Event ID.

=item  keyAddressAttr 

Destination address.

=item  keyOptionalKeywordAttr 

List of optional keywords.

=item  keyTimeoutAttr 

Timeout limit.

=item  keyInteractLevelAttr 

Interaction level.

=item  keyEventSourceAttr 

Event source address.

=item  keyMissedKeywordAttr 

List of mandatory keywords not used.

=item  keyOriginalAddressAttr 

Original source address.

=item  keyPreDispatch 

Install handler before dispatching.

=item  keySelectProc 

Enable/Disable OSL.

=item  keyAERecorderCount 

Number of processes recording AppleEvents.

=item  keyAEVersion 

AppleEvent Manager version.

=back

=head2 Constants: Core AppleEvent Suite

=over 4

=item  kCoreEventClass 

Core Suite Event class.

=item  kAEOpenApplication 

Open application without documents.

=item  kAEOpenDocuments 

Open documents.

=item  kAEPrintDocuments 

Print documents.

=item  kAEQuitApplication 

Quit application.

=item  kAEAnswer 

AppleEvent answer event.

=item  kAEApplicationDied 

Launched application has ended.

=back

=head2 Constants: Miscellaneous

=over 4

=item  kAENoReply 

=item  kAEQueueReply 

=item  kAEWaitReply 

=item  kAENeverInteract 

=item  kAECanInteract 

=item  kAEAlwaysInteract 

=item  kAECanSwitchLayer 

=item  kAEDontReconnect 

=item  kAEWantReceipt 

=item  kAEDontRecord 

=item  kAEDontExecute 

=item  kAEInteractWithSelf 

=item  kAEInteractWithLocal 

=item  kAEInteractWithAll 

AppleEvent sendMode flags.

=item  kAENormalPriority 

=item  kAEHighPriority 

AppleEvent priority values.

=item  kAEStartRecording 

=item  kAEStopRecording 

=item  kAENotifyStartRecording 

=item  kAENotifyStopRecording 

=item  kAENotifyRecording 

Recording events.

=item  kAutoGenerateReturnID 

=item  kAnyTransactionID 

=item  kAEDefaultTimeout 

=item  kNoTimeOut 

Special values for return ID, transaction ID, and timeout.

=item  kAENoDispatch 

=item  kAEUseStandardDispatch 

=item  kAEDoNotIgnoreHandler 

=item  kAEIgnoreAppPhacHandler 

=item  kAEIgnoreAppEventHandler 

=item  kAEIgnoreSysPhacHandler 

=item  kAEIgnoreSysEventHandler 

=item  kAEIngoreBuiltInEventHandler 

=item  kAEDontDisposeOnResume 

Options for C<AEResumeTheCurrentEvent()>.

=back

=head2 Variables

=over 4

=item %AppleEvent

An array of application-wide event handlers.

   $AppleEvent{"aevt", "odoc"} = \&OpenDocument;

=item %SysAppleEvent

An arrary of system-wide event handlers.

=back

=head2 AEDesc

AEDesc is a Perl package that encapsulates an AppleEvent Descriptor.
It uses the OO methods of Perl5 to make building and parsing data structures
easier.

=over 4

=item new TYPE, HANDLE

=item new TYPE, DATA

=item new TYPE

=item new

Create a new AppleEvent descriptor.
Sets the type and data to TYPE (default is 'null'), and HANDLE or DATA 
(default is empty).

	$desc = new AEDesc("aevt", $event);

=item type TYPE

=item type

Return the type from the AEDesc structure.  
If TYPE is present, make it the new type.

=item data HANDLE

=item data

Return the data from the AEDesc structure. If HANDLE is present, make
it the new data.

B<Warning>: If using Mac OS X, you must dispose of the result on your own.
This is because in Mac OS, we returned the handle from the AEDesc itself,
but now we must return a copy.  So in Mac OS we could do:

	print $desc->data->get;

Now we must do:

	my $handle = $desc->data;
	print $handle->get;
	$handle->dispose;

Normally, you don't want to call C<data> directly anyway, and you would
use C<get> instead.

=item get

Return the data of the AEDesc structure in a smartly unpacked way.

=back

=head2 AEKeyDesc

AEKeyDesc is a Perl package that encapsulates an AppleEvent keyword.
It uses the OO methods of Perl5 to make building and parsing data structures
easier.

=over 4

=item new KEY, TYPE, HANDLE

=item new KEY, TYPE, DATA

=item new KEY, TYPE

=item new KEY

=item new

Creates a new AppleEvent keyword descriptor.
Sets the keyword, type and data to KEY (default is zero),
TYPE (default is 'null'), and HANDLE or DATA (default is empty).

=item key KEY

=item key

Return the keyword of the AEKeyDesc structure.
If KEY is present, make it the new keyword.

=item type TYPE

=item type

Return the type from the AEKeyDesc structure.  If TYPE is present, make it the new type.

=item data HANDLE

=item data

Return the data from the AEKeyDesc structure. If HANDLE is present, make
it the new data.

=item get

Return the contents in a smartly unpacked way.

=back

=head2 Raw AppleEvent Interface

=over 4

=item AECreateDesc TYPE, DATA

The AECreateDesc function creates a new descriptor record that incorporates the
specified data.

=item AECoerce TYPE, DATA, NEWTYPE

=item AECoerceDesc DESC, NEWTYPE

The AECoerceDesc function attempts to create a new descriptor record by coercing
the specified descriptor record. AECoerce attempts the same with a Perl data string.

=item AEDisposeDesc DESC

Deallocate the memory used by a descriptor record. 

	if ( !AEDisposeDesc($desc) ) {
		# error occurred
	}

=item AEDuplicateDesc DESC

Creates a new descriptor record by copying the
descriptor record from the parameter $DESC.

	$newDesc = AEDuplicateDesc($desc);
	if ( defined $newDesc ) {
		# do something productive
	}

=item AECreateList FACTOR, BOOL

The AECreateList function creates an empty descriptor list (BOOL is 0),
or AE record (BOOL is nonzero). FACTOR contains the common prefix for each
descriptor or is empty.

	$list = AECreateList("", 0);
	if ( defined $list ) {
		# do something productive
	}

=item AECountItems DESCLIST

Count the number of descriptor records in any descriptor list. The result
is C<undef> if the list is invalid.

=item AEPut DESCLIST, INDEX, TYPE, HANDLE

=item AEPutDesc DESCLIST, INDEX, DESC

Add a descriptor record to any descriptor list. AEPut will manufacture the 
record to add it to the list.
Return zero if an error was detected.

=item AEPutKey DESCLIST, KEY, TYPE, HANDLE

=item AEPutKeyDesc DESCLIST, KEY, DESC

Add a descriptor record and a keyword to an AE record. AEPutKey will manufacture the 
record to add it to the AE record.
Return zero if an error was detected.

=item AEGetNthDesc DESCLIST, INDEX [, TYPE]

The AEGetNthDesc function returns a specified descriptor record from a specified
descriptor list. The result is an AEDesc object and the keyword from a keyword
specified list.

	($Desc, $Key) = AEGetNthDesc($DescList, $i);
	if ( defined $Desc ) {
		# do something productive
	}

=item AEGetKeyDesc DESCLIST, KEY [, TYPE]

The AEGetKeyDesc function returns a keyword-specified descriptor record from
a specified descriptor record.	The result is an AEDesc object.

=item AEDeleteItem DESCLIST, INDEX

Delete a descriptor record from a descriptor list. All subsequent descriptor
records will then move up one place.

=item AEPutParam EVENT, KEY, TYPE, HANDLE

=item AEPutParamDesc EVENT, KEY, DESC

Add a descriptor record and a keyword to an Apple event as an Apple event
parameter. AEPutParam creates the descriptor record.

=item AEGetParamDesc EVENT, KEY [, TYPE]

The AEGetParamDesc function returns the descriptor
record for a specified Apple event parameter, which it attempts to coerce to the
descriptor type specified by TYPE (default is no coercion). 

=item AEDeleteParam EVENT, KEY

Delete an Apple event parameter.
Return zero if an error was detected.

=item AEGetAttributeDesc EVENT, KEY, TYPE

The AEGetAttributeDesc function returns the descriptor
record for the Apple event attribute with the specified keyword.

=item AEPutAttribute EVENT, KEY, TYPE, HANDLE

=item AEPutAttributeDesc EVENT, KEY, DESC

The AEPutAttributeDesc function takes a descriptor record and a keyword and adds
them to an Apple event as an attribute.
AEPutAttribute creates the record from TYPE and HANDLE. 
Return zero if an error was detected.

=item AECreateAppleEvent CLASS, EVENTID, DESC [, RETURNID [, TRANSACTIONID ] ]

The AECreateAppleEvent function creates an Apple event and returns it.
TRANSACTIONID defaults to zero.
RETURNID defaults to kAutoGenerateReturnID.

=item AESend EVENT, SENDMODE [, SENDPRIORITY [, TIMEOUT ] ]

Send the Apple Event EVENT. 
TIMEOUT defaults to kAEDefaultTimeout.
SENDPRIORITY defaults to kAENormalPriority.
Returns the reply if SENDMODE was kAEWaitReply.

=item AEResetTimer REPLY

The Apple Event Manager for the server
application uses the default reply to send a Reset Timer event to the client
application; the Apple Event Manager for the client application's computer
intercepts this Apple event and resets the client application's timer for the
Apple event.

=item AESuspendTheCurrentEvent EVENT

After a server application makes a successful call to the
AESuspendTheCurrentEvent function, it is no longer required to return a result or
a reply for the Apple event that was being handled. The result is zero if no error
was detected.

=item AEResumeTheCurrentEvent EVENT [, FLAGS, REFCON]

The Apple Event
Manager resumes handling the specified Apple event using the handler specified in
the FLAGS parameter, if any. If FLAGS and REFCON are missing, 
AEResumeTheCurrentEvent simply informs the Apple Event Manager that
the specified event has been handled.

=item AEGetTheCurrentEvent

Get the Apple event that is currently being handled. 

=item AESetTheCurrentEvent EVENT

There is usually no reason for your application to use the AESetTheCurrentEvent
function.

=item AEGetInteractionAllowed

The AEGetInteractionAllowed function returns a value
that indicates the user interaction preferences for responding to an Apple event.
The result is C<undef> if an error was detected.

=item AESetInteractionAllowed LEVEL

The AESetInteractionAllowed function sets the user interaction level for a server
application's response to an Apple event. The result is zero if no error was detected.

=item AEInstallEventHandler CLASS, EVENTID, HANDLER, HANDLERREFCON [, SYSTEM]

The AEInstallEventHandler function creates an entry in the Apple event dispatch
table. You must supply parameters that specify the event class, the event ID, the
address of the handler that handles Apple events of the specified event class and
event ID, and whether the handler is to be added to the system Apple event
dispatch table or your application's Apple event dispatch table. You can also
specify a reference constant that the Apple Event Manager passes to your handler
whenever your handler processes an Apple event.

	if (!AEInstallEventHandler(kCoreEventClass, kAEOpenDocuments, 'OpenDocument', 0) ) {
		# an error occurred.
	}

A much more uniform (and Perl-ish) method is available using the hash arrays
%AppleEvent and %SysAppleEvent to bind handlers to event types.

	$AppleEvent{kCoreEventClass, kAEOpenDocuments} = 'OpenDocument';
	...
	delete $AppleEvent{kCoreEventClass, kAEOpenDocuments};

=item AERemoveEventHandler CLASS, EVENTID [, SYSTEM]

The AERemoveEventHandler function removes the Apple event dispatch table entry
you specify in the parameters CLASS, EVENTID, and SYSTEM. 

=item AEGetEventHandler CLASS, EVENTID [, SYSTEM]

The AEGetEventHandler function returns the handler and handlerrefcon for
the specified class and event. 

	($proc, $refcon) = AEGetEventHandler("aevt", "oapp");

=item AEManagerInfo KEY

Obtain information about the version of the Apple Event Manager currently
available or the number of processes that are currently recording Apple events. 
The result is C<undef> if an error occurred.

=back

=head2 AEGizmos Build/Print

The Apple Event Gizmos were developed by Jens Peter Alfke at Apple as a vastly
speeded up AE library. Consult the AEGizmo documentation for details of usage
of the library. The Build/Print facility uses a formatting convention similar
to scanf/printf to put things together.

=over 4

=item AEBuild FORMAT, PARM, ...

Build an AppleEvent descriptor using the format per the Gizmo documentation
and return it.

=item AEBuildParameters EVENT, FORMAT, PARM, ...

Build parameters for an existing AppleEvent EVENT.

	if (!AEBuildParameters($reply, $format, $parm1, $parm2) ) {
		# an error occurred
	}

=item AEBuildAppleEvent CLASS, ID, ADDRESSTYPE, ADDRESS, RETURNID, TRANSACTIONID, FORMAT, PARMS, ...

Construct an AppleEvent from the format and parameters and return it.

=item AEPrint DESC

Return a string version of the descriptor record. The result is C<undef>
if an error occurred.

=back

=head2 AEGizmos Subdescriptors

The Apple Event Gizmos subdescriptor approach uses a dictionary method for
extracting and constructing descriptors.  Parsing an Apple Event using the
dictionary is very time efficient, and translating to and from the dictionary
tables is quick and efficient.

=over 4

=item AEDescToSubDesc DESC

B<Mac OS only.>

Translate DESC to a subdescriptor (dictionary entry). 
Return the subdescriptor.

=item AEGetSubDescType SUBDESC

B<Mac OS only.>

Return the type of the subdescriptor.

=item AEGetSubDescBasicType SUBDESC

B<Mac OS only.>

Return the basic type of the subdescriptor. Differs from AEGetSubDescType
in handling of coerced records.

=item AESubDescIsListOrRecord SUBDESC

B<Mac OS only.>

Return nonzero if the subdescriptor is a list or record.

=item AEGetSubDescData SUBDESC

B<Mac OS only.>

Returns the data of the subdescriptor. 

=item AESubDescToDesc SUBDESC, DESIREDTYPE

B<Mac OS only.>

Translate the subdescriptor back to a descriptor of the desired type.

=item AECountSubDescItems SUBDESC

B<Mac OS only.>

Counts the number of subdescriptor items.

=item AEGetNthSubDesc SUBDESC,INDEX

B<Mac OS only.>

Returns the item INDEX of the subdescriptor and its type if the subdescriptor
represented a record and not a list.

=item AEGetKeySubDesc SUBDESC,KW

B<Mac OS only.>

Returns the keyword indexed item from the subdescriptor.

=back

=head2 AEStream

The Apple Event Gizmos streams approach uses a streaming model for building 
a sequence of descriptors.

=over 4

=item new AEStream

=item AEStream::Open 

Return a new AEStream.

=item new AEStream(CLASS, ID, ADDRESSTYPE, ADDRESS [, RETURNID [, TRANSACTIONID ] ])

=item AEStream::CreateEvent CLASS, ID, ADDRESSTYPE, ADDRESS, RETURNID, TRANSACTIONID

Create an AEStream attached to a new AppleEvent.

=item new AEStream(EVENT)

=item AEStream::OpenEvent EVENT

Opens the stream on the $EVENT.
Return C<undef> if an error was detected.

=item Close

Return the descriptor corresponding to the stream, and close it out.

	$stream->Close;

=item Abort STREAM

Abort the streaming process, and close it out.

	$stream->Abort;

=item OpenDesc TYPE

Start building a descriptor of the given type.
Return zero if an error was detected.

	if ( $stream->OpenDesc($type) ) {
		# Long messy calculation that demonstrates the usefullness of this code
		if ( $stream->WriteData($calculatedData) 
		 &&  $stream->CloseDesc()
		){
			# then, my work here is done
		}
	}

=item WriteData DATA

Add data to the descriptor.

=item CloseDesc

Finish up the descriptor.

=item WriteDesc TYPE, DATA

Add the arbitrary data with the given type as a descriptor to the stream.

=item WriteAEDesc STREAM, AEDESC

Add an Apple Event descriptor to the stream.

=item OpenList

Start building a list of AppleEvent descriptors in the stream.

=item CloseList STREAM

Return zero if an error was detected.

	if ( $stream->OpenList() ) {
		for $desc (@descList) {
			croak unless $stream->WriteAEDesc($desc);
		}
		die unless $stream->CloseList();
	}

=item OpenRecord [TYPE]

Start the process of building a record, to be coerced to the given type.
=cut
MacOSRet
OpenRecord(stream, type=typeAERecord)
	AEStream	&stream
	OSType	type
	CODE:
	RETVAL = AEStream_OpenRecord(&stream, type);
	OUTPUT:
	stream

=item SetRecordType TYPE

Change the record type.

=item CloseRecord STREAM

Close the record currently under construction.

	if ( $stream->OpenRecord(typeAErecord) ) {
		for $kdesc (@descList) {
			die unless $stream->WriteKey($kdesc->key) and 
					$stream->WriteAEDesc($kdesc->desc);
		}
		die unless $stream->CloseRecord();
	}

=item WriteKeyDesc KEY, TYPE, DATA

Add the keyword descriptor to the stream.

=item OpenKeyDesc KEY, TYPE

Open a descriptor with the given type and key.
Use CloseDesc() to close it.

=item WriteKey  KEY

Add the keyword to the immediately following descriptor.
Return zero if an error was detected.

=item OptionalParam KEY

Adds the keyword to the list of optional attributes.

=back



=head1 AUTHOR

Written by Matthias Ulrich Neeracher E<lt>neeracher@mac.comE<gt>,
documentation by Bob Dalgleish E<lt>bob.dalgleish@sasknet.sk.caE<gt>.
Currently maintained by Chris Nandor E<lt>pudge@pobox.comE<gt>.

