=head1 NAME

Mac::OSA - Provide interface to Open Scripting Architecture

=head1 SYNOPSIS


    use Mac::OSA;

    use Mac::OSA qw(OSALoad OSAStore OSAExecute);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Access to Inside Macintosh is essential for proper use of these functions.
Explanations of terms, processes and procedures are provided there.
Any attempt to use these functions without guidance can cause severe errors in 
your machine, including corruption of data. B<You have been warned.>

=head2 Constants

=over 4

=item kOSAComponentType

=item kOSAGenericScriptingComponentSubtype

=item kOSAFileType

=item kOSASuite

=item kOSARecordedText

=item kOSAScriptIsModified

=item kOSAScriptIsTypeCompiledScript

=item kOSAScriptIsTypeScriptValue

=item kOSAScriptIsTypeScriptContext

=item kOSAScriptBestType

=item kOSACanGetSource

=item typeOSADialectInfo

=item keyOSADialectName

=item keyOSADialectCode

=item keyOSADialectLangCode

=item keyOSADialectScriptCode

=item kOSAScriptResourceType

=item typeOSAGenericStorage

Types and keywords.

=item kOSANullScript

=item kOSANullMode

=item kOSAModeNull

Default values.

=item kOSASupportsCompiling

=item kOSASupportsGetSource

=item kOSASupportsAECoercion

=item kOSASupportsAESending

=item kOSASupportsRecording

=item kOSASupportsConvenience

=item kOSASupportsDialects

=item kOSASupportsEventHandling

Feature flags.

=item kOSAModePreventGetSource

=item kOSAModeNeverInteract

=item kOSAModeCanInteract

=item kOSAModeAlwaysInteract

=item kOSAModeDontReconnect

=item kOSAModeCantSwitchLayer

=item kOSAModeDoRecord

=item kOSAModeCompileIntoContext

=item kOSAModeAugmentContext

=item kOSAModeDisplayForHumans

=item kOSAModeDontStoreParent

=item kOSAModeDispatchToDirectObject

=item kOSAModeDontGetDataForArguments

Mode flags.

=item kOSAErrorNumber

=item kOSAErrorMessage

=item kOSAErrorBriefMessage

=item kOSAErrorApp

=item kOSAErrorPartialResult

=item kOSAErrorOffendingObject

=item kOSAErrorExpectedType

=item kOSAErrorRange

=item typeOSAErrorRange

=item keyOSASourceStart

=item keyOSASourceEnd

Error handling.

=item kOSAUseStandardDispatch

=item kOSANoDispatch

=item kOSADontUsePhac

=item kGenericComponentVersion

Dispatching flags

=back

=head2 Functions

=over 4

=item OSALoad SCRIPTINGCOMPONENT, SCRIPTDATA, MODEFLAGS

The OSALoad function loads script data and returns a script ID. The generic
scripting component uses the descriptor record in the SCRIPTDATA parameter to
determine which scripting component should load the script. If the descriptor
record is of type typeOSAGenericStorage, the generic scripting component uses the
trailer at the end of the SCRIPTDATA to identify the scripting component. If the
descriptor record's type is the subtype value for another scripting component,
the generic scripting component uses the descriptor type to identify the
scripting component.
Return C<undef> if an error was detected.

=item OSAStore SCRIPTINGCOMPONENT, SCRIPTID, DESIREDTYPE, MODEFLAGS

The OSAStore function returns script data in a descriptor record so that the data
can later be saved in a resource or written to the data fork of a document. You
can then reload the data for the descriptor record as a compiled script (although
possibly with a different script ID) by passing the descriptor record to OSALoad().
Return C<undef> if an error was detected.

=item OSAExecute SCRIPTINGCOMPONENT, COMPILEDSCRIPTID, CONTEXTID, MODEFLAGS

The OSAExecute function executes the compiled script identified by the
COMPILEDSCRIPTID parameter, using the script context identified by the CONTEXTID
parameter to maintain state information, such as the binding of variables, for
the compiled script. After successfully executing a script, OSAExecute returns
the script ID for a resulting script value, or, if execution does not result in a
value, C<undef>.

=item OSADisplay SCRIPTINGCOMPONENT, SCRIPTVALUEID, DESIREDTYPE, MODEFLAGS

The OSADisplay function coerces the script value identified by SCRIPTVALUEID to a
descriptor record of the text type specified by the DESIREDTYPE parameter, if
possible. Valid types include all the standard text descriptor types defined in
the Apple Event Registry: Standard Suites, plus any special types supported by
the scripting component.
Return C<undef> if an error was detected.

=item OSAScriptError SCRIPTINGCOMPONENT, SELECTOR, DESIREDTYPE

Whenever the OSAExecute() function returns the error errOSAScriptError, you can use
the OSAScriptError function to get more specific information about the error from
the scripting component that encountered it. (This information remains available
only until the next call to the same scripting component.) The information
returned by OSAScriptError depends on the value passed in the SELECTOR parameter,
which also determines the descriptor type you should specify in the DESIREDTYPE
parameter. 

Return C<undef> if an error was detected.

=item OSADispose SCRIPTINGCOMPONENT, SCRIPTID

The OSADispose function releases the memory assigned to the script data identified
by the SCRIPTID parameter. The SCRIPTID passed to the OSADispose function is no
longer valid if the function returns successfully. A scripting component can then
reuse that SCRIPTID for other script data. 
Return zero if no error was detected.

=item OSASetScriptInfo SCRIPTINGCOMPONENT, SCRIPTID, SELECTOR, VALUE

The OSASetScriptInfo function sets script information according to the value you
pass in the selector parameter. If you use the kOSAScriptIsModified constant,
OSASetScriptInfo sets a value that indicates how many times the script data has
been modified since it was created or passed to OSALoad. Some scripting
components may provide additional constants.
Return zero if no error was detected.

=item OSAGetScriptInfo SCRIPTINGCOMPONENT, SCRIPTID, SELECTOR

The OSAGetScriptInfo function returns various results according to the value you
pass in the SELECTOR parameter.
Returns an integer value which may need to be recast as the desired type.

=item OSAScriptingComponentName SCRIPTINGCOMPONENT

The OSAScriptingComponentName function returns a descriptor record that you can
coerce to a text descriptor type such as typeChar. This can be useful if you want
to display the name of the scripting language in which the user should write a
new script.
Return C<undef> if an error was detected.

=item OSACompile SCRIPTINGCOMPONENT, SOURCEDATA, MODEFLAGS, [PREVIOUSSCRIPTID]

You can pass a descriptor record containing source data suitable for a specific
scripting component (usually text) to the OSACompile function to obtain a script
ID for the equivalent compiled script or script context. To compile the source
data as a script context for use with OSAExecuteEvent() or OSADoEvent(), you must set
the kOSACompileIntoContext flag, and the source data should include appropriate
handlers.
Return zero if no error was detected.

=item OSACopyID SCRIPTINGCOMPONENT, FROMID, [TOID]

The OSACopyID function replaces the script data identified by the script ID in
the TOID parameter with the script data identified by the script ID in the FROMID
parameter.
Return C<undef> if an error was detected.

=item OSAGetSource SCRIPTINGCOMPONENT, SCRIPTID, [DESIREDTYPE]

The OSAGetSource function decompiles the script data identified by the specified
script ID and returns a descriptor record containing the equivalent source data.
Return C<undef> if an error was detected.

=item OSACoerceFromDesc SCRIPTINGCOMPONENT, SCRIPTDATA, MODEFLAGS

The OSACoerceFromDesc function coerces the descriptor record in the SCRIPTDATA
parameter to the equivalent script value and returns a script ID for that value. 
Return C<undef> if an error was detected.

=item OSACoerceToDesc SCRIPTINGCOMPONENT, SCRIPTID, DESIREDTYPE, MODEFLAGS

The OSACoerceToDesc function coerces the script value identified by SCRIPTID
to a descriptor record of the type specified by the DESIREDTYPE parameter, if
possible.
Return C<undef> if an error was detected.

=item OSASetDefaultTarget SCRIPTINGCOMPONENT, TARGET

The OSASetDefaultTarget function establishes the default target application for
Apple event sending and the default application from which the scripting
component should obtain terminology information. For example, AppleScript
statements that refer to the default application do not need to be enclosed in
C<tell/end tell> statements. 
Return zero if no error was detected.

=item OSAStartRecording SCRIPTINGCOMPONENT, [COMPILEDSCRIPTTOMODIFYID]

The OSAStartRecording routine turns on Apple event recording. Subsequent Apple
events are recorded (that is, appended to any existing statements) in the
compiled script specified by the COMPILEDSCRIPTTOMODIFYID parameter.
Return C<undef> if an error was detected.

=item OSAStopRecording SCRIPTINGCOMPONENT, COMPILEDSCRIPTID

The OSAStopRecording function turns off recording. If the script is not currently
open in a script editor window, the COMPILEDSCRIPTTOMODIFYID parameter supplied
to OSAStartRecording() is then augmented to contain the newly recorded statements.
If the script is currently open in a script editor window, the script data that
corresponds to the compiledScriptToModifyID parameter supplied to
OSAStartRecording() is updated continuously until the client application calls
OSAStopRecording. 
Return zero if no error was detected.

=item OSALoadExecute SCRIPTINGCOMPONENT, SCRIPTDATA, CONTEXTID, MODEFLAGS

The OSALoadExecute function loads script data and executes the resulting compiled
script, using the script context identified by the CONTEXTID parameter to
maintain state information such as the binding of variables. After successfully
executing the script, OSALoadExecute disposes of the compiled script and returns
either the script ID for the resulting script value or, if execution does not
result in a value, the constant kOSANullScript. 
Return C<undef> if an error was detected.

=item OSACompileExecute SCRIPTINGCOMPONENT, SOURCEDATA, CONTEXTID, MODEFLAGS

The OSACompileExecute function compiles source data and executes the resulting
compiled script, using the script context identified by the CONTEXTID parameter
to maintain state information such as the binding of variables. After
successfully executing the script, OSACompileExecute disposes of the compiled
script and returns either the script ID for the resulting script value or, if
execution does not result in a value, the constant kOSANullScript.
Return C<undef> if an error was detected.

=item OSADoScript SCRIPTINGCOMPONENT, SOURCEDATA, CONTEXTID, DESIREDTYPE, MODEFLAGS

Calling the OSADoScript function is equivalent to calling OSACompile() followed by
OSAExecute() and OSADisplay(). After compiling the source data, executing the
compiled script using the script context identified by the CONTEXTID parameter,
and returning the text equivalent of the resulting script value, OSADoScript
disposes of both the compiled script and the resulting script value.
Return C<undef> if an error was detected.

=item OSASetCurrentDialect SCRIPTINGCOMPONENT, DIALECTCODE

Set the current dialect for a scripting component.
Return zero if no error was detected.

=item OSAGetCurrentDialect SCRIPTINGCOMPONENT

Get the dialect code for the dialect currently being used by a scripting
component.
Returns the code for the current dialect of the specified scripting component.

=item OSAAvailableDialects SCRIPTINGCOMPONENT

Obtain a descriptor list containing information about each of the currently
available dialects for a scripting component. 
Return C<undef> if an error was detected.

=item OSAGetDialectInfo SCRIPTINGCOMPONENT, DIALECTCODE, SELECTOR

After you obtain a list of dialect codes by calling OSAAvailableDialectCodeList(),
you can pass any of those codes to OSAGetDialectInfo to get information about the
corresponding dialect. The descriptor type of the descriptor record returned by
OSAGetDialectInfo depends on the constant specified in the SELECTOR parameter.
Return C<undef> if an error was detected.

=item OSAAvailableDialectCodeList SCRIPTINGCOMPONENT

Obtain a descriptor list containing dialect codes for each of a scripting
component's currently available dialects. 
Return C<undef> if an error was detected.

=item OSAExecuteEvent SCRIPTINGCOMPONENT, THEAPPLEEVENT, CONTEXTID, MODEFLAGS

The OSAExecuteEvent function attempts to use the script context specified by the
contextID parameter to handle the Apple event specified by the THEAPPLEEVENT
parameter.
Return C<undef> if an error was detected.

=item OSADoEvent SCRIPTINGCOMPONENT, THEAPPLEEVENT, CONTEXTID, MODEFLAGS

The OSADoEvent function resembles both OSADoScript() and OSAExecuteEvent().
However,
unlike OSADoScript(), the script OSADoEvent executes must be in the form of a
script context, and execution is initiated by an Apple event. Unlike
OSAExecuteEvent(), OSADoEvent returns a reply Apple event rather than the script ID
of the resulting script value.
Return C<undef> if an error was detected.

=item OSAMakeContext SCRIPTINGCOMPONENT, CONTEXTNAME, [PARENTCONTEXT]

The OSAMakeContext function creates a new script context that you may pass to
OSAExecute() or OSAExecuteEvent(). The new script context inherits the bindings of
the script context specified in the PARENTCONTEXT parameter.
Return C<undef> if an error was detected.

=item OSAGetDefaultScriptingComponent GENERICSCRIPTINGCOMPONENT

The OSAGetDefaultScriptingComponent function returns the subtype code for the
default scripting component. This is the scripting component that will be used by
OSAStartRecording(), OSACompile(), or OSACompileExecute() if no existing script ID is
specified. From the user's point of view, the default scripting component
corresponds to the scripting language selected in the Script Editor application
when the user first creates a new script.
Return C<undef> if an error was detected.

=item OSASetDefaultScriptingComponent GENERICSCRIPTINGCOMPONENT, SCRIPTINGSUBTYPE

The OSASetDefaultScriptingComponent function sets the default scripting component
for the specified instance of the generic scripting component to the scripting
component identified by the SCRIPTINGSUBTYPE parameter.
Return zero if no error was detected.

=item OSAGetScriptingComponent GENERICSCRIPTINGCOMPONENT, SCRIPTINGSUBTYPE

The OSAGetScriptingComponent function returns an instance of the scripting
component identified by the
SCRIPTINGSUBTYPE parameter. Each instance of the generic scripting component
keeps track of a single instance of each component subtype, so
OSAGetScriptingComponent always returns the same instance of a specified
scripting component that the generic scripting component uses for standard
scripting component routines.
Return C<undef> if an error was detected.

=item OSAGetScriptingComponentFromStored GENERICSCRIPTINGCOMPONENT, SCRIPTDATA

The OSAGetScriptingComponentFromStored function returns the subtype code for the
scripting component that created the script
data specified by the SCRIPTDATA parameter. 
Return C<undef> if an error was detected.

=item OSAGenericToRealID GENERICSCRIPTINGCOMPONENT, GENERICSCRIPTID

Given a GENERICSCRIPTID (that is, a script ID returned by a call to a standard
component routine via the generic scripting component), the OSAGenericToRealID
function returns the equivalent component-specific script ID and the component
instance that created that script ID as an array.

=item OSARealToGenericID GENERICSCRIPTINGCOMPONENT, THESCRIPTID, THEEXACTCOMPONENT

The OSARealToGenericID function performs the reverse of the task performed by
OSAGenericToRealID(). Given a component-specific SCRIPTID and an exact scripting
component instance (that is, the component instance that created the
component-specific script ID), the OSARealToGenericID function returns the
corresponding generic script ID.
Return C<undef> if an error was detected.

=back



=head1 AUTHOR

Written by Matthias Ulrich Neeracher E<lt>neeracher@mac.comE<gt>,
documentation by Bob Dalgleish E<lt>bob.dalgleish@sasknet.sk.caE<gt>.
Currently maintained by Chris Nandor E<lt>pudge@pobox.comE<gt>.

