=head1 NAME

Mac::Speech - Provide interface to PlainTalk (Speech Manager)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Mac::Speech;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Access to Inside Macintosh is essential for proper use of these functions.
Explanations of terms, processes and procedures are provided there.
Any attempt to use these functions without guidance can cause severe errors in 
your machine, including corruption of data. B<You have been warned.>

=head2 Variables

=over 4

=item %Voice

The C<%Voice> hash will return the index to the first voice whose name
matches the given text.

=back

=head2 Constants

=over 4

=item kTextToSpeechSynthType

=item kTextToSpeechVoiceType

=item kTextToSpeechVoiceFileType

=item kTextToSpeechVoiceBundleType

Speech Types.

=item kNoEndingProsody

=item kNoSpeechInterrupt

=item kPreflightThenPause

Synthesizer flags.

=item kImmediate

=item kEndOfWord

=item kEndOfSentence

Where to stop.

=item kNeuter

=item kMale

=item kFemale

Genders.

=back

=head2 Types

=over 4

=item VoiceDescription

Voice Description Record.

	long        length              size of structure--set by application
	VoiceSpec   voice               voice synthesizer and ID info
	long        version             version number of voice
	Str63       name                name of voice
	Str255      comment             text information about voice
	short       gender              neuter, male, or female
	short       age                 approximate age in years
	short       script              script code of text voice can process
	short       language            language code of voice output
	short       region              region code of voice output

=item VoiceSpec

Voice Specification Record.

	OSType      creator             ID of required synthesizer
	OSType      id                  ID of voice on the synthesizer


=back

=head2 Functions

=over 4

=item SpeechManagerVersion 

=item CountVoices 

=item GetIndVoice INDEX 

=item GetVoiceDescription VOICE 

=item NewSpeechChannel VOICE 

=item DisposeSpeechChannel CHAN 

=item SpeakString S 

=item SpeakText CHAN, TEXT 

=item SpeakBuffer CHAN, TEXT, CONTROLFLAGS 

=item StopSpeech CHAN 

=item StopSpeechAt CHAN, WHERETOSTOP 

=item PauseSpeechAt CHAN, WHERETOPAUSE 

=item ContinueSpeech CHAN 

=item SpeechBusy 

=item SpeechBusySystemWide 

=item SetSpeechRate CHAN, RATE 

=item GetSpeechRate CHAN 

=item SetSpeechPitch CHAN, PITCH 

=item GetSpeechPitch CHAN 

=item TextToPhonemes CHAN, TEXT

=back



=head1 AUTHOR

Written by Matthias Ulrich Neeracher E<lt>neeracher@mac.comE<gt>.
Currently maintained by Chris Nandor E<lt>pudge@pobox.comE<gt>.

