=head1 Introduction to ShuX

=head2 What is ShuX?

ShuX is a Cocoa-based Mac OS X update to the MacPerl Shuck tool. Naturally,
if you've never used MacPerl or Shuck, that's not extraordinarily helpful
to know. :-)

ShuX (and Shuck) is a POD reader. POD is Perl's "plain old documentation"
format. All of the documentation that ships with Perl - and there is a LOT
of it - is delivered in POD format. The docs for a module are written in POD
format, and embedded within the module's .pm file.

Perl also includes a command-line "perldoc" utility to read PODs, and they're
also converted to man pages at install-time. But these formats are not ideal,
for a number of reasons. For one thing, it's difficult to use the command-line
tools to browse a nicely-formatted hierarchical list of all the available
documentation. Instead, you have to know the name of the POD you want to view.
For another, they're command-line tools, and while fixed-width Monaco is a
wonderful font for working in a shell and/or editing code, it's much less ideal
for reading documentation.

=head2 The Browser window

=head3 Main section

The main section of the browser window contains a hierarchical list of all the
available documentation within the current DocSet. (See "Working with Document
Sets" later.) The list is divided into four sections: PODs, Core, CPAN, and
Vendor:

=over

=item *

B<PODs>

This section lists all of the "basic" Perl documentation, such as
"perlfunc" or "perlvar".

=item *

B<Core>

This is where you'll find documentation for the "core" modules - that
is, modules that are included with Perl.

=item *

B<CPAN>

Documentation for modules that were installed later, separately from
Perl itself, is found here.

=item *

B<Vendor>

Perl's "Vendor" directory for modules is not commonly used. When it
is, it usually points to a network-mounted location where modules have been
installed for use by a number of machines.

=back

A number of actions will open a POD listed in the browser: You can double-click
it. You can select it, then click the "Open" button. Finally, pressing the
"Return" or "Enter" key will open the current selection.

=head3 Toolbar

The toolbar has two controls: A combo box labeled "Enter POD Name", and a popup
list labeled "Document Set". The "Document Set" popup lists all of the
configured DocSets, and is used to select the one displayed in the main browser
section. (See "Working with Document Sets" later for more about those.)

The combo box is used to search for PODs in the browser. To use it, first enter
some text, then use the down-arrow key or click the triangle to drop down the
list. The list will show the PODs matching the text you've entered. The matching
is filtered by wildcards, and ends with an implicit "*". For example, entering
"perl" will list all the PODs whose name begins with "perl", entering "Net::"
will display PODs in the "Net" package.

Selecting one of the entries in the combo box list will cause that POD to be
selected in the main browser.

=head2 The Document Window

There's not much to be said about the document window at the moment. That will
change. :-)

=head2 Working with Document Sets

Document Sets are primarily of interest to those who have multiple copies of
Perl installed on their machines. Put simply, a Document Set is the set of
documentation for an installation of Perl and its modules.

The "Document Set" popup in the Browser window is used to choose which of the
available Document Sets is displayed in the main section of that window.

In document windows, the name of the Document Set that was used to open a
document is displayed in the window's title bar.

Document Sets are managed using the "Document Sets" pane in the Preferences
panel - see below.

=head2 Preferences

The Preferences panel has three panes:

=over

=item *

B<Document Sets>

This pane has a popup list which displays all of the currently available
Document Sets. There is one DocSet available by default, it is named
"* Default *", and reflects the configuration of the Perl being used to
run ShuX. It cannot be deleted or changed. Other DocSets can be added,
their paths can be edited, or they can be deleted.

Under the popup list are three buttons:

=over

=item *

B<Delete>

Use this button to delete the currently selected DocSet.

=item *

B<Add>

This adds a DocSet whose items are completely blank.

=item *

B<Perl...>

This adds a DocSet, and prompts you to select a "perl" binary. That "perl"
will be queried for its configuration information, and the result used to
provide information for the new DocSet.

=back

=item *

B<Appearance>

Nothing here yet.

=item *

B<Application>

There are two sections to this pane:

=over

=item *

B<Startup>

The check boxes in this section determine what is displayed automatically
when ShuX is started up.

=item *

B<HTML Cache>

ShuX works by translating POD documents into HTML, and then displaying that
HTML in a window. The translation can be a time-consuming process, especially
for large documents such as "perlfunc", so the generated HTML is cached.

In this section, there are options for specifying the directory used by ShuX
for its cache, for forcing the cache to be cleared when ShuX exits, and for
clearing the cache immediately.

=back

=back

=head2 Etc.

The defaults domain used by ShuX is org.dot-app.ShuX3.

=head2 Copyright, Credits, and Licensing

ShuX and CamelBones are copyright E<copy> 2005 Sherm Pendley.

The ShuX "corn" logo is copyright E<copy> 2005 Alex Robinson.
