=head1 NAME

Mac::Gestalt - Macintosh Toolbox Interface to the Gestalt Manager

=head1 SYNOPSIS


	# Only bring in the names we want
	use Mac::Gestalt qw(%Gestalt gestaltAppleTalkVersion);

	if ( $Gestalt{gestaltAppleTalkVersion} lt "58" ) {
		warn "Unable to use AppleTalk\n";
	}

=head1 DESCRIPTION

You can use the Gestalt function or the %Gestalt tied hash to obtain information about 
the operating environment. You specify what information you need by passing one of
the selector codes recognized by Gestalt.

=pod

There is a huge list of codes. Many of them return a bitmask, so to find out 
whether e.g. the Code Fragment Manager is present, you  write

	$Gestalt{gestaltCFMAttr} & (1 << gestaltCFMPresent)

=head2 Constants

=over 4

=item gestaltAddressingModeAttr

=item gestalt32BitAddressing

=item gestalt32BitSysZone

=item gestalt32BitCapable

Address mode.

=item gestaltAliasMgrAttr

=item gestaltAliasMgrPresent

=item gestaltAliasMgrSupportsRemoteAppletalk

Alias manager.

=item gestaltAppleTalkVersion

AppleTalk.

=item gestaltAUXVersion

A/UX.

=item gestaltCloseViewAttr

=item gestaltCloseViewEnabled

=item gestaltCloseViewDisplayMgrFriendly

CloseView.

=item gestaltCFMAttr

=item gestaltCFMPresent

Code Fragment Manager.

=item gestaltColorMatchingAttr

=item gestaltHighLevelMatching

=item gestaltColorMatchingLibLoaded

ColorSync.

=item gestaltColorMatchingVersion

=item gestaltColorSync10

=item gestaltColorSync11

=item gestaltColorSync104

=item gestaltColorSync105

ColorSync version.

=item gestaltConnMgrAttr

=item gestaltConnMgrPresent

=item gestaltConnMgrCMSearchFix

=item gestaltConnMgrErrorString

=item gestaltConnMgrMultiAsyncIO

Communications toolbox connection manager.

=item gestaltComponentMgr

Component manager.

=item gestaltColorPickerVersion

=item gestaltColorPicker

Color picker.

=item gestaltNativeCPUtype

=item gestaltCPU68000

=item gestaltCPU68010

=item gestaltCPU68020

=item gestaltCPU68030

=item gestaltCPU68040

=item gestaltCPU601

=item gestaltCPU603

=item gestaltCPU604

CPU type.

=item gestaltCRMAttr

=item gestaltCRMPresent

=item gestaltCRMPersistentFix

=item gestaltCRMToolRsrcCalls

Communications toolbox connection resource manager.

=item gestaltControlStripVersion

Control strip manager.

=item gestaltCTBVersion

Communications toolbox.

=item gestaltDBAccessMgrAttr

=item gestaltDBAccessMgrPresent

Database access manager.

=item gestaltDictionaryMgrAttr

=item gestaltDictionaryMgrPresent

Dictionary manager.

=item gestaltDITLExtAttr

=item gestaltDITLExtPresent

Dialog manager extensions.

=item gestaltDisplayMgrAttr

=item gestaltDisplayMgrPresent

=item gestaltDisplayMgrCanSwitchMirrored

=item gestaltDisplayMgrSetDepthNotifies

Display manager.

=item gestaltDisplayMgrVers

Display manager version.

=item gestaltDragMgrAttr

=item gestaltDragMgrPresent

=item gestaltDragMgrFloatingWind

=item gestaltPPCDragLibPresent

Drag manager.

=item gestaltEasyAccessAttr

=item gestaltEasyAccessOff

=item gestaltEasyAccessOn

=item gestaltEasyAccessSticky

=item gestaltEasyAccessLocked

Easy access.

=item gestaltEditionMgrAttr

=item gestaltEditionMgrPresent

=item gestaltEditionMgrTranslationAware

Edition manager.

=item gestaltAppleEventsAttr

=item gestaltAppleEventsPresent

=item gestaltScriptingSupport

=item gestaltOSLInSystem

AppleEvent manager.

=item gestaltFinderAttr

=item gestaltFinderDropEvent

=item gestaltFinderMagicPlacement

=item gestaltFinderCallsAEProcess

=item gestaltOSLCompliantFinder

=item gestaltFinderSupports4GBVolumes

=item gestaltFinderHasClippings

Finder attributes.

=item gestaltFindFolderAttr

=item gestaltFindFolderPresent

Folder manager.

=item gestaltFontMgrAttr

=item gestaltOutlineFonts

Font manager.

=item gestaltFPUType

=item gestaltNoFPU

=item gestalt68881

=item gestalt68882

=item gestalt68040FPU

680X0 FPU.

=item gestaltFSAttr

=item gestaltFullExtFSDispatching

=item gestaltHasFSSpecCalls

=item gestaltHasFileSystemManager

=item gestaltFSMDoesDynamicLoad

=item gestaltFSSupports4GBVols

=item gestaltFSSupports2TBVols

=item gestaltHasExtendedDiskInit

File system attributes.

=item gestaltFSMVersion

File system manager.

=item gestaltFXfrMgrAttr

=item gestaltFXfrMgrPresent

=item gestaltFXfrMgrMultiFile

=item gestaltFXfrMgrErrorString

File transfer manager.

=item gestaltGraphicsAttr

=item gestaltGraphicsIsDebugging

=item gestaltGraphicsIsLoaded

=item gestaltGraphicsIsPowerPC

QuickDraw GX attributes.

=item gestaltGraphicsVersion

=item gestaltCurrentGraphicsVersion

QuickDraw GX version.

=item gestaltHardwareAttr

=item gestaltHasVIA1

=item gestaltHasVIA2

=item gestaltHasASC

=item gestaltHasSCC

=item gestaltHasSCSI

=item gestaltHasSoftPowerOff

=item gestaltHasSCSI961

=item gestaltHasSCSI962

=item gestaltHasUniversalROM

=item gestaltHasEnhancedLtalk

Hardware attributes.

=item gestaltHelpMgrAttr

=item gestaltHelpMgrPresent

=item gestaltHelpMgrExtensions

Help manager.

=item gestaltCompressionMgr

QuickTime image compression manager.

=item gestaltIconUtilitiesAttr

=item gestaltIconUtilitiesPresent

Icon utilities.

=item gestaltKeyboardType

=item gestaltMacKbd

=item gestaltMacAndPad

=item gestaltMacPlusKbd

=item gestaltExtADBKbd

=item gestaltStdADBKbd

=item gestaltPrtblADBKbd

=item gestaltPrtblISOKbd

=item gestaltStdISOADBKbd

=item gestaltExtISOADBKbd

=item gestaltADBKbdII

=item gestaltADBISOKbdII

=item gestaltPwrBookADBKbd

=item gestaltPwrBookISOADBKbd

=item gestaltAppleAdjustKeypad

=item gestaltAppleAdjustADBKbd

=item gestaltAppleAdjustISOKbd

=item gestaltJapanAdjustADBKbd

=item gestaltPwrBkExtISOKbd

=item gestaltPwrBkExtJISKbd

=item gestaltPwrBkExtADBKbd

Keyboard types.

=item gestaltLowMemorySize

Size of low memory area.

=item gestaltLogicalRAMSize

Locical RAM size.

=item gestaltMachineType

=item gestaltClassic

=item gestaltMacXL

=item gestaltMac512KE

=item gestaltMacPlus

=item gestaltMacSE

=item gestaltMacII

=item gestaltMacIIx

=item gestaltMacIIcx

=item gestaltMacSE030

=item gestaltPortable

=item gestaltMacIIci

=item gestaltMacIIfx

=item gestaltMacClassic

=item gestaltMacIIsi

=item gestaltMacLC

=item gestaltQuadra900

=item gestaltPowerBook170

=item gestaltQuadra700

=item gestaltClassicII

=item gestaltPowerBook100

=item gestaltPowerBook140

=item gestaltQuadra950

=item gestaltMacLCIII

=item gestaltPerforma450

=item gestaltPowerBookDuo210

=item gestaltMacCentris650

=item gestaltPowerBookDuo230

=item gestaltPowerBook180

=item gestaltPowerBook160

=item gestaltMacQuadra800

=item gestaltMacQuadra650

=item gestaltMacLCII

=item gestaltPowerBookDuo250

=item gestaltAWS9150_80

=item gestaltPowerMac8100_110

=item gestaltAWS8150_110

=item gestaltMacIIvi

=item gestaltMacIIvm

=item gestaltPerforma600

=item gestaltPowerMac7100_80

=item gestaltMacIIvx

=item gestaltMacColorClassic

=item gestaltPerforma250

=item gestaltPowerBook165c

=item gestaltMacCentris610

=item gestaltMacQuadra610

=item gestaltPowerBook145

=item gestaltPowerMac8100_100

=item gestaltMacLC520

=item gestaltAWS9150_120

=item gestaltMacCentris660AV

=item gestaltPerforma46x

=item gestaltPowerMac8100_80

=item gestaltAWS8150_80

=item gestaltPowerBook180c

=item gestaltPowerMac6100_60

=item gestaltAWS6150_60

=item gestaltPowerBookDuo270c

=item gestaltMacQuadra840AV

=item gestaltPerforma550

=item gestaltPowerBook165

=item gestaltMacTV

=item gestaltMacLC475

=item gestaltPerforma47x

=item gestaltMacLC575

=item gestaltMacQuadra605

=item gestaltQuadra630

=item gestaltPowerMac6100_66

=item gestaltAWS6150_66

=item gestaltPowerBookDuo280

=item gestaltPowerBookDuo280c

=item gestaltPowerMac7100_66

=item gestaltPowerBook150

Macintosh system type.

=item kMachineNameStrID

Resource ID of C<'STR '> resource containing machine type.

=item gestaltMachineIcon

Machine icon.

=item gestaltMiscAttr

=item gestaltScrollingThrottle

=item gestaltSquareMenuBar

Miscellaneous attributes.

=item gestaltMixedModeVersion

=item gestaltMixedModeAttr

=item gestaltPowerPCAware

Mixed mode manager.

=item gestaltMMUType

=item gestaltNoMMU

=item gestaltAMU

=item gestalt68851

=item gestalt68030MMU

=item gestalt68040MMU

=item gestaltEMMU1

680X0 MMU types.

=item gestaltStdNBPAttr

=item gestaltStdNBPPresent

Standard NBP dialog.

=item gestaltNotificationMgrAttr

=item gestaltNotificationPresent

Notification manager.

=item gestaltNameRegistryVersion

Name registry.

=item gestaltNuBusSlotCount

Number of NuBus solts.

=item gestaltOpenFirmwareInfo

Open firmware.

=item gestaltOSAttr

=item gestaltSysZoneGrowable

=item gestaltLaunchCanReturn

=item gestaltLaunchFullFileSpec

=item gestaltLaunchControl

=item gestaltTempMemSupport

=item gestaltRealTempMemory

=item gestaltTempMemTracked

=item gestaltIPCSupport

=item gestaltSysDebuggerSupport

OS attributes.

=item gestaltOSTable

OS Trap table.

=item gestaltPCXAttr

=item gestaltPCXHas8and16BitFAT

=item gestaltPCXHasProDOS

PC Exchange.

=item gestaltLogicalPageSize

Logical memory page size.

=item gestaltPopupAttr

=item gestaltPopupPresent

Popup menu controls.

=item gestaltPowerMgrAttr

=item gestaltPMgrExists

=item gestaltPMgrCPUIdle

=item gestaltPMgrSCC

=item gestaltPMgrSound

=item gestaltPMgrDispatchExists

Power manager.

=item gestaltPPCToolboxAttr

=item gestaltPPCToolboxPresent

=item gestaltPPCSupportsRealTime

=item gestaltPPCSupportsIncoming

=item gestaltPPCSupportsOutGoing

Process-to-Process communications toolbox.

=item gestaltProcessorType

=item gestalt68000

=item gestalt68010

=item gestalt68020

=item gestalt68030

=item gestalt68040

Processor type.

=item gestaltParityAttr

=item gestaltHasParityCapability

=item gestaltParityEnabled

Memory parity checking.

=item gestaltQuickdrawVersion

=item gestaltOriginalQD

=item gestalt8BitQD

=item gestalt32BitQD

=item gestalt32BitQD11

=item gestalt32BitQD12

=item gestalt32BitQD13

QuickDraw attributes.

=item gestaltQuickdrawFeatures

=item gestaltHasColor

=item gestaltHasDeepGWorlds

=item gestaltHasDirectPixMaps

=item gestaltHasGrayishTextOr

=item gestaltSupportsMirroring

QuickDraw features.

=item gestaltQuickTimeVersion

=item gestaltQuickTime

QuickTime.

=item gestaltQuickTimeFeatures

=item gestaltPPCQuickTimeLibPresent

QuickTime features.

=item gestaltPhysicalRAMSize

Size of physical RAM.

=item gestaltRBVAddr

RBV, whatever that is.

=item gestaltROMSize

Size of built in ROM.

=item gestaltROMVersion

ROM version.

=item gestaltResourceMgrAttr

=item gestaltPartialRsrcs

Resource manager.

=item gestaltRealtimeMgrAttr

=item gestaltRealtimeMgrPresent

Realtime manager.

=item gestaltSCCReadAddr

Serial controller read address.

=item gestaltSCCWriteAddr

Serial controller write address.

=item gestaltScrapMgrAttr

=item gestaltScrapMgrTranslationAware

Scrap manager.

=item gestaltScriptMgrVersion

Script manager.

=item gestaltScriptCount

Number of installed script systems.

=item gestaltSCSI

=item gestaltAsyncSCSI

=item gestaltAsyncSCSIINROM

=item gestaltSCSISlotBoot

SCSI manager.

=item gestaltControlStripAttr

=item gestaltControlStripExists

=item gestaltControlStripVersionFixed

=item gestaltControlStripUserFont

=item gestaltControlStripUserHotKey

Control strip attributes.

=item gestaltSerialAttr

=item gestaltHasGPIaToDCDa

=item gestaltHasGPIaToRTxCa

=item gestaltHasGPIbToDCDb

Serial atrributes.

=item gestaltNuBusConnectors

Number of NuBus connectors.

=item gestaltSlotAttr

=item gestaltSlotMgrExists

=item gestaltNuBusPresent

=item gestaltSESlotPresent

=item gestaltSE30SlotPresent

=item gestaltPortableSlotPresent

Slot attributes.

=item gestaltFirstSlotNumber

Number of first slot.

=item gestaltSoundAttr

=item gestaltStereoCapability

=item gestaltStereoMixing

=item gestaltSoundIOMgrPresent

=item gestaltBuiltInSoundInput

=item gestaltHasSoundInputDevice

=item gestaltPlayAndRecord

=item gestalt16BitSoundIO

=item gestaltStereoInput

=item gestaltLineLevelInput

=item gestaltSndPlayDoubleBuffer

=item gestaltMultiChannels

=item gestalt16BitAudioSupport

Sound attributes.

=item gestaltStandardFileAttr

=item gestaltStandardFile58

=item gestaltStandardFileTranslationAware

=item gestaltStandardFileHasColorIcons

=item gestaltStandardFileUseGenericIcons

=item gestaltStandardFileHasDynamicVolumeAllocation

Standard file manager attributes.

=item gestaltSysArchitecture

=item gestalt68k

=item gestaltPowerPC

System architecture.

=item gestaltSystemVersion

System version.

=item gestaltTSMgrVersion

=item gestaltTSMgr2

Text system manager.

=item gestaltTSMgrAttr

=item gestaltTSMDisplayMgrAwareBit

=item gestaltTSMdoesTSMTEBit

Text system manager attributes.

=item gestaltTSMTEVersion

=item gestaltTSMTE1

=item gestaltTSMTE2

Text system manager for TextEdit.

=item gestaltTSMTEAttr

=item gestaltTSMTEPresent

=item gestaltTSMTE

Text system manager for TextEdit attributes.

=item gestaltTextEditVersion

=item gestaltTE1

=item gestaltTE2

=item gestaltTE3

=item gestaltTE4

=item gestaltTE5

=item gestaltTE6

TextEdit manager.

=item gestaltTEAttr

=item gestaltTEHasGetHiliteRgn

=item gestaltTESupportsInlineInput

=item gestaltTESupportsTextObjects

TextEdit attributes.

=item gestaltTeleMgrAttr

=item gestaltTeleMgrPresent

=item gestaltTeleMgrPowerPCSupport

=item gestaltTeleMgrSoundStreams

=item gestaltTeleMgrAutoAnswer

=item gestaltTeleMgrIndHandset

=item gestaltTeleMgrSilenceDetect

=item gestaltTeleMgrNewTELNewSupport

Telephone attributes.

=item gestaltTermMgrAttr

=item gestaltTermMgrPresent

=item gestaltTermMgrErrorString

Communications toolbox terminal manager.

=item gestaltTimeMgrVersion

=item gestaltStandardTimeMgr

=item gestaltRevisedTimeMgr

=item gestaltExtendedTimeMgr

Time manager.

=item gestaltSpeechAttr

=item gestaltSpeechMgrPresent

=item gestaltSpeechHasPPCGlue

Speech synthesis manager.

=item gestaltToolboxTable

Toolbox dispatch table.

=item gestaltThreadMgrAttr

=item gestaltThreadMgrPresent

=item gestaltSpecificMatchSupport

=item gestaltThreadsLibraryPresent

Thread manager.

=item gestaltTVAttr

=item gestaltHasTVTuner

=item gestaltHasSoundFader

=item gestaltHasHWClosedCaptioning

=item gestaltHasIRRemote

=item gestaltHasVidDecoderScaler

=item gestaltHasStereoDecoder

TV interface.

=item gestaltVersion

=item gestaltValueImplementedVers

Gestalt version.

=item gestaltVIA1Addr

=item gestaltVIA2Addr

VIA addresses.

=item gestaltVMAttr

=item gestaltVMPresent

Virtual memory.

=item gestaltTranslationAttr

=item gestaltTranslationMgrExists

=item gestaltTranslationMgrHintOrder

=item gestaltTranslationPPCAvail

=item gestaltTranslationGetPathAPIAvail

Translation manager.

=item gestaltExtToolboxTable

Extended toolbox dispatch table.

=back

=head2 Functions

=over 4

=item Gestalt SELECTOR

Implements the Gestalt query code.
Return C<undef> if an error was detected.

=back



=head1 AUTHOR

Written by Matthias Ulrich Neeracher E<lt>neeracher@mac.comE<gt>,
documentation by Bob Dalgleish E<lt>bob.dalgleish@sasknet.sk.caE<gt>.
Currently maintained by Chris Nandor E<lt>pudge@pobox.comE<gt>.

