=head1 NAME

Mac::InternetConfig - Interface to Peter Lewis' and Quinns Internet Config system

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Access to the original Internet Config documentation is essential for proper use 
of these functions.

=head2 Constants

=over 4

=item kICRealName

=item kICEmail

=item kICMailAccount

=item kICMailPassword

=item kICNewsAuthUsername

=item kICNewsAuthPassword

=item kICArchiePreferred

=item kICArchieAll

=item kICUMichPreferred

=item kICUMichAll

=item kICInfoMacPreferred

=item kICInfoMacAll

=item kICPhHost

=item kICWhoisHost

=item kICFingerHost

=item kICFTPHost

=item kICTelnetHost

=item kICSMTPHost

=item kICNNTPHost

=item kICGopherHost

=item kICLDAPServer

=item kICLDAPSearchbase

=item kICWWWHomePage

=item kICWAISGateway

=item kICListFont

=item kICScreenFont

=item kICPrinterFont

=item kICTextCreator

=item kICBinaryTypeCreator

=item kICDownloadFolder

=item kICSignature

=item kICOrganization

=item kICPlan

=item kICQuotingString

=item kICMailHeaders

=item kICNewsHeaders

=item kICMapping

=item kICCharacterSet

=item kICHelper

=item kICServices

=item kICNewMailFlashIcon

=item kICNewMailDialog

=item kICNewMailPlaySound

=item kICNewMailSoundName

=item kICWebBackgroundColour

=item kICNoProxyDomains

=item kICUseSocks

=item kICSocksHost

=item kICUseHTTPProxy

=item kICHTTPProxyHost

=item kICUseFTPProxy

=item kICFTPProxyHost

=item kICFTPProxyUser

=item kICFTPProxyPassword

=item kICFTPProxyAccount

Internet Config settings.

=item ICmap_binary

=item ICmap_resource_fork

=item ICmap_data_fork

=item ICmap_post

=item ICmap_not_incoming

=item ICmap_not_outgoing

=item ICservices_tcp

=item ICservices_udp

=item icNoPerm

=item icReadOnlyPerm

=item icReadWritePerm

Various constants.

=back

=head2 Variables

=over 4

=item $ICInstance

The instance of the Internet Config database.

=item %RawInternetConfig

Access the raw, uninterpreted value of an Internet Config setting.

=item %InternetConfig

Access a sane Perl version of one of the more common Internet Config settings.

=item %InternetConfigMap

Access the Internet Config file map to:

=over 4

=item filename

Determine the file type and creator for a newly created file:

    $map = $InternetConfigMap{"output.html"};	

=item type/creator

Determine the extension to use for some type/creator combination:

    $map = $InternetConfigMap{["WDBN", "MSWD"]};

=back

=back

=head2 Types

=over 4

=item ICMapEntry

An entry in the file map. Fields are:

    short     version;
    OSType    file_type;
    OSType    file_creator;
    OSType    post_creator;
    long      flags;
    Str255    extension;
    Str255    creator_app_name;
    Str255    post_app_name;
    Str255    MIME_type;
    Str255    entry_name;

=back

=head2 Functions

=over 4

=item ICStart 

=item ICStart CREATOR

Call this at application initialisation. Set creator to your application creator to 
allow for future expansion of the IC system (Default is MacPerl's creator). Returns 
a connection to the IC system.

=item ICStop INST

It is illegal to call this routine inside a ICBegin/End pair.
Call this at application termination, after which INST
is no longer valid connection to IC.

=item ICGeneralFindConfigFile INST, SEARCH_PREFS, CAN_CREATE, @FOLDERS

=item ICGeneralFindConfigFile INST, SEARCH_PREFS, CAN_CREATE

=item ICGeneralFindConfigFile INST

B<Mac OS only.>

It is illegal to call this routine inside a ICBegin/End pair.
Call to configure this connection to IC.
This routine acts as a more general replacement for
ICFindConfigFile and ICFindUserConfigFile.
Set search_prefs to 1 (default) if you want it to search the preferences folder.
Set can_create to 1 if you want it to be able to create a new config.
Set count as the number of valid elements in folders.
Set folders to a pointer to the folders to search.
Setting count to 0 and folders to nil is OK.
Searches the specified folders and then optionally the Preferences folder
in a unspecified manner.

=item ICChooseConfig INST

B<Mac OS only.>

Requires IC 1.2.
It is illegal to call this routine inside a ICBegin/End pair.
Requests the user to choose a configuration, typically using some
sort of modal dialog. If the user cancels the dialog the configuration
state will be unaffected.

=item ICChooseNewConfig INST

B<Mac OS only.>

Requires IC 1.2.
It is illegal to call this routine inside a ICBegin/End pair.
Requests the user to choose a new configuration, typically using some
sort of modal dialog. If the user cancels the dialog the configuration
state will be unaffected.

=item ICGetConfigName INST, LONGNAME

=item ICGetConfigName INST

Requires IC 1.2.
You must specify a configuration before calling this routine.
Returns a string that describes the current configuration at a user
level. Set longname to 1 if you want a long name, up to 255
characters, or 0 (default) if you want a short name, typically about 32
characters.
The returned string is for user display only. If you rely on the
exact format of it, you will conflict with any future IC
implementation that doesn't use explicit preference files.

=item ICGetConfigReference INST

B<Mac OS only.>

Requires IC 1.2.
You must specify a configuration before calling this routine.
Returns a self-contained reference to the instance's current
configuration.

=item ICSetConfigReference INST, REF, FLAGS

=item ICSetConfigReference INST, REF

B<Mac OS only.>

Requires IC 1.2.
It is illegal to call this routine inside a ICBegin/End pair.
Reconfigures the instance using a configuration reference that was
got using ICGetConfigReference reference. Set the
icNoUserInteraction_bit in flags if you require that this routine
not present a modal dialog. Other flag bits are reserved and should
be set to zero.

=item ICGetSeed INST

You do not have to specify a configuration before calling this routine.
You do not have to be inside an ICBegin/End pair to call this routine.
Returns the current seed for the IC prefs database.
This seed changes each time a non-volatile preference is changed.
You can poll this to determine if any cached preferences change.

=item ICGetComponentInstance INST

B<Mac OS only.>

Requires IC 1.2.
You do not have to specify a configuration before calling this routine.
You do not have to be inside an ICBegin/End pair to call this routine.
Returns the connection to the IC component.

=item ICBegin INST, PERM

You must specify a configuration before calling this routine. It is illegal to
call this routine inside a ICBegin/End pair. Starting reading or writing
multiple preferences. A call to this must be balanced by a call to ICEnd. Do
not call WaitNextEvent between these calls. The perm specifies whether you
intend to read or read/write. Only one writer is allowed per instance. Note
that this may open resource files that are not closed until you call ICEnd. 

=item ICGetPref INST, KEY

You must specify a configuration before calling this routine.
If you are getting or setting multiple preferences, you should place
these calls within an ICBegin/ICEnd pair.
If you call this routine outside of such a pair, it implicitly
calls ICBegin(inst, icReadOnlyPerm).
Reads the preference specified by key from the IC database to the
buffer pointed to by buf and size.
key must not be the empty string.
If called in a scalar context, return the preference. If called in a list
context, additionally returns the attributes.
Returns icPrefNotFound if there is no preference for the key.

=item ICSetPref INST, KEY, VALUE
=item ICSetPref INST, KEY, VALUE, ATTR

You must specify a configuration before calling this routine.
If you are getting or setting multiple preferences, you should place
these calls within an ICBegin/ICEnd pair.
If you call this routine outside of such a pair, it implicitly
calls ICBegin(inst, icReadWritePerm).
Sets the preference specified by KEY from the IC database to the
VALUE. If attr is ICattr_no_change (the default) then the preference attributes 
are not set. Otherwise the preference attributes are set to attr.
Returns icPermErr if the previous ICBegin was passed icReadOnlyPerm.
Returns icPermErr if current attr is locked, new attr is locked.

=item ICCountPref INST

You must specify a configuration before calling this routine.
You must be inside an ICBegin/End pair to call this routine.
Counts the total number of preferences.

=item ICGetIndPref	INST, N

You must specify a configuration before calling this routine.
You must be inside an ICBegin/End pair to call this routine.
Returns the key of the Nth preference.
n must be positive.
Returns icPrefNotFoundErr if n is greater than the total number of preferences.

=item ICDeletePref INST, KEY

You must specify a configuration before calling this routine.
You must be inside an ICBegin/End pair to call this routine.
Deletes the preference specified by KEY.
KEY must not be the empty string.
Returns icPrefNotFound if the preference specified by key is not present.

=item ICEnd INST

You must specify a configuration before calling this routine.
You must be inside an ICBegin/End pair to call this routine.
Terminates a preference session, as started by ICBegin.
You must have called ICBegin before calling this routine.

=item ICEditPreferences	INST, KEY

Requires IC 1.1.
You must specify a configuration before calling this routine.
You do not have to be inside an ICBegin/End pair to call this routine.
Instructs IC to display the user interface associated with editing
preferences and focusing on the preference specified by key.
If key is the empty string then no preference should be focused upon.
You must have specified a configuration before calling this routine.
You do not need to call ICBegin before calling this routine.
In the current implementation this launches the IC application
(or brings it to the front) and displays the window containing
the preference specified by key.
It may have a radically different implementation in future
IC systems.

=item ICParseURL INST, HINT, DATA, START, END

=item ICParseURL INST, HINT, DATA

Requires IC 1.1.
You must specify a configuration before calling this routine.
You do not have to be inside an ICBegin/End pair to call this routine.
Parses a URL out of the specified text and returns it in a canonical form
in a handle.
HINT indicates the default scheme for URLs of the form "name@address".
If HINT is the empty string then URLs of that form are not allowed.
DATA contains the text.
START and END should be passed in as the current selection of
the text. This selection is given in the same manner as TextEdit,
ie if START == END then there is no selection only an insertion
point. Also START  END and 0  START  length(DATA) and 0  END  length(DATA).
If START and END are omitted, the whole of DATA is assumed.
In a scalar context, returns URL. In an array context, returns URL, START, END.

=item ICLaunchURL INST, HINT, DATA, START, END

=item ICLaunchURL INST, HINT, DATA

Requires IC 1.1.
You must specify a configuration before calling this routine.
You do not have to be inside an ICBegin/End pair to call this routine.
Parses a URL out of the specified text and feeds it off to the appropriate helper.
HINT indicates the default scheme for URLs of the form "name@address".
If HINT is the empty string then URLs of that form are not allowed.
DATA contains the text.
START and END should be passed in as the current selection of
the text. This selection is given in the same manner as TextEdit,
ie if START == END then there is no selection only an insertion
point. Also START  END and 0  START  length(DATA) and 0  END  length(DATA).
If START and END are omitted, the whole of DATA is assumed.
In a scalar context, returns URL. In an array context, returns URL, START, END.

=item ICMapFileName INST, NAME

Returns the C<ICMapEntry> matching best the given name.

=item ICMapTypeCreator INST, TYPE, CREATOR [, NAME]

Takes the type and creator (and optionally the name) of an outgoing
file and returns the most appropriate C<ICMapEntry>.

=item ICMapEntriesFileName INST, ENTRIES, NAME

Returns the C<ICMapEntry> matching best the given name.

=item ICMapEntriesTypeCreator INST, ENTRIES, TYPE, CREATOR [, NAME]

Takes the type and creator (and optionally the name) of an outgoing
file and returns the most appropriate C<ICMapEntry>.

=item ICCountMapEntries	INST, ENTRIES

Counts the number of entries in the map.

=item ICGetIndMapEntry INST, ENTRIES, INDEX

Returns the position of a map entry and the entry itself.

    $map = ICGetIndMapEntry $inst, $entries, 5;
    ($pos, $map) = ICGetIndMapEntry $inst, $entries, 5;

=item ICGetMapEntry INST, ENTRIES, POS

Returns the entry located at position pos in the mappings database.

=item ICSetMapEntry INST, ENTRIES, POS, ENTRY

Replace the entry at position pos

=item ICDeleteMapEntry INST, ENTRIES, POS

Delete the entry at position pos

=item ICAddMapEntry INST, ENTRIES, ENTRY

Add an entry to the database.



=item GetURL URL

Launch helper app with URL.  Returns undef on error.

=item GetICHelper PROTOCOL

Return list of creator ID and name for helper app assigned
to PROTOCOL.  Returns only creator ID in scalar context.
Returns undef on error.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Written by Matthias Ulrich Neeracher E<lt>neeracher@mac.comE<gt>.
Currently maintained by Chris Nandor E<lt>pudge@pobox.comE<gt>.

